---
layout: post
title: "Startup: is there a bubble forming here ... "
date: 2015-11-15 18:05:10
published: false
---

# Sam is naturally a hermit ...

This summer I was lucky enough to spend a lot of time bootstrapping my own web startup. It's a new way of working for me, and at the start I worried this would ultimately mean I never left the house. So to try and get some awareness of gotchas that were coming my way, and to try and avoid becoming a hermit, I went to a range of startup based meets and hung around in funky northern quarter coffee shops with my laptop whilst worrying that I was starting to behave a bit like a hipster.

Something that became clear right away, there aren't that many people actually doing startups at startup events, mostly it's just people who want to work with startups, or recruitment people, venture capitalists, accountants.

But something more interesting and I think quite surprising, a lot of people doing startups aren't looking to find a revenue stream for there idea.

# "It's a bit like facebook, but for sheep herders ... "

I've heard this sentance a few times, it's normally about aiming at a specific subset of everybody and then givin them a bunch of extra features they should find useful. Most of the time I don't know the demograph well enough to assess the usefulness of those features, so I'd normally ask about the financial side of it in the hope that we might find some conversational common ground there.

The thing I've discovered is people involved in this business model normally don't have a revenue stream, but also seem to be actively discouraging themselves from thinking about the problem. Their game plan seems to be:

* build a big user base
* sell at a price per user

At least once people have pointed out to me that as soon as their site makes money, it becomes much easier to put a price on it, where as with the price per user model you ultimately have to estimate how much each user is worth! Hence a reluctancy to find a revenue stream.

The dream is nice but I'm only aware of a handful of successful businesses that mimic Facebook out there. If this strategy worked I'd expect to know a few more.

# Venture capital

As I said, for now I'm self funding, but there does appear to be quite a lot of money out there for people with an idea. You fork over some of the control of the idea and future revenue in return for a cash injection now. I've not examined it too closely because I don't need the cash just yet and I'm reluctant to give up any control at this point. But I am surprised that venture capital is seen as the default approach for most.

* venture capital
* big user base & no revenue stream

