---
title: "Time"
date: 2016-12-08 19:41:00
layout: post
published: false
---

So, I left my job 19 months ago. At the time I was faintly worried that I'd simply take it as an oppertunity to lay in bed till the early afternoon and then play video games until it was time to go to the pub.

This didn't happen and I'm pretty happy about that; when I was employed I was happy with my job but I still found it a challenge to be up in time to be at work for 9am and shamedly 10am was often a more likely bet. Now I'm more likely at work by 9am and only on very off days is it an 11am start.

Big woop I hear you cry, you're commute now amounts to some stairs. Well, yes, but there is more going on here. 

Before breakfast *never* happened. I'd cycle to work so showering would happen once in the office, hence I would get up at about 8:15am to be in the work building for 9am, quickly check nothing was on fire, then shower and be ready for about 9:45am.

I'm now up and moving at about 7:15am and spend the next 1 hour 45 minutes getting ready for the day; decent healthy breakfast, some chores, a bit of exercise maybe, get clean and get to the desk. Work starts at 9am. This is a massive improvement on before.

Just as I was on my way out of my previous employer, they were also bringing in time sheets; I was not a fan. As timesheets go they weren't that draconian; they were asking for a resolution of around half a day hence: "what did you spend the morning on?" "what did you spend the afternoon on?". This was a nonsense, I think it was a compromise move to try and appease staff who were having it imposed upon them. I think I elected to simply do 1 hour resolution instead because it resembled reality to some extent.

So given I disliked timesheets once I left presumably these were the first against the wall? Well, no, a bit of the oppersite really; I got quite into pomodoro method and stuck with it and counted how many pomodoros I was doing a day. Being a bit of a data geek I decided to also categorise the poms by project and type of work. I now have cost tallys for each project I've worked on since I started Serotine, and a break down of the type of activity I'm enaged in.

Curiously, I turn over less than 8 hours of poms a day but I appear to be more productive. At the old employer I did do 8 hour days, if I got in late at 10am I would be there until at least 6pm. And I'd previously tried to do pomodoro method there as well but it was impossible; the phone would ring or someone would walk in, you can't arrange for a 25 minute block of uninterrupted time in that setting.

With Serotine the distractions are less, I can find many 25 minute blocks of time over the day. I only timesheet poms; general flicking through emails doesn't count, odd little businessy phone calls don't really count either, but also presenteeism doesn't count. At my old employer I felt I owed them 8 hours of my day, but when I work for Serotine I owe it productivity and ideas.

I have often found myself between direct contracts doing development work on Roost or Doormouse or some other long term thing for Serotine staring at a screen not really doing anything but resisting the urge to check Facebook. It's frustrating but more recently I've taken it as a sign I should just go buy groeries, or commute into Manchester or spend 30 minutes playing a game or something
