---
title: "Announcing Mimoto Limited!"
date: 2016-12-08 19:41:00
layout: post
published: false
---

So today I'm very pleased to announce the start of a new venture: Mimoto Limited!

Mimoto is a consultancy which provides identity management expertise. The word Mimoto is actually a Japanese word which means (or at least I really hope it means) "Identity". Our plan is to provide a phone/email support package for institutions who need a bit of extra help with their Shibboleth/SAML infrastructure but who cannot necessarily justify a full team for that need, whilst also offering fixed price work for identity infrastructure projects.

Mimoto has been bourne out of Serotine and Digital Identity Labs; over the last few months these two companies have worked together on a range of consultancy projects and have mutally decided that it would be best to combine resources to better support future work.

#Support packages

Higher education institutions, and many companies that wish to sell them services, need SAML/Shibboleth expertise to get their identity infrastructure working with the rest of the federation. 

The skills required to do this are relatively rare and difficult to accquire. Shibboleth is not a skill that most IT professionals will poses and furthermore it's a difficult one for them to aquire; the authentication model is unlike one's they are likely to have experienced before. Furthermore SAML2 requires a high understanding of x509 cryptography, XML, and web protocols.

The other side of the coin is that even large institutions need these skills infrequently; once setup federated login will normally "just work". Shibboleth knowledge will only then be required if something breaks, or if a new service needs to be consumed, or the infrastructure itself is being replaced; and in general in those cases Shibboleth *expertise* are required rather than a passing knowledge.

With our support packages we hope to offer the peace of mind that comes with knowing there is a team of experts you can get in touch with about your crucial login infrastructure should you need to but at a fraction of the cost of a dedicated team.

#Shibboleth consultancy

As well as support packages we're also able to quote for bespoke infrastructure work in accordance with your needs.

Get in touch at http://www.mimoto.co.uk info@mimoto.co.uk or 0161 850 4093

Whilst Mimoto is the place to go for consultancy services, Serotine and Digitial Identity Labs continue to develop their own Shibboleth related services.
